Dart is a client-optimized, object-oriented, modern programming language to build apps fast for many platforms like android,
 iOS, web, desktop, etc. Client optimized means optimized for crafting a beautiful user interface and high-quality 
 experiences. Google developed Dart as a programming language.

Basic Programming Terms

Important words that you often hear while learning programming languages.

Statements: A statement is a command that tells a computer to do something. In Dart, you can end most statements with a 
semicolon ;.

Expressions: An Expression is a value or something that can be calculated as a value. 
The expression can be numbers, text, or some other type. For E.g.

a. 52
b. 5+5
c. 'Hello World.'
d. num

Keywords: Keywords are reserved words that give special meaning to the dart compiler. 
For E.g. int, if, var, String, const, etc.

Identifiers: Identifiers are names created by the programmer to define variables, functions, classes, etc.
Identifiers shouldn’t be keywords and must have a unique name. For E.g. int age =19;,
 here age is an identifier. You will learn more about identifiers later in this course.

High-Level Programming Language: High-Level Programming Language is easy to learn, user-friendly, 
and uses English-like-sentence. For E.g. dart,c,java,etc.

Low-Level Programming Language: Low-level programming language is hard to learn, non-user friendly, 
and deals with computer hardware components, e.g., machine and assembly language.

Compiler: A compiler is a computer program that translates the high-level programming language into machine-level language.

Syntax: The Syntax is a programming language’s pattern or rules that give the concept to code.

Variables

Variables are containers used to store value in the program. 

Variable Types
They are called data types. 

String: For storing text value. E.g. “John” [Must be in quotes]
int: For storing integer value. E.g. 10, -10, 8555 [Decimal is not included]
double: For storing floating point values. E.g. 10.0, -10.2, 85.698 [Decimal is included]
num: For storing any type of number. E.g. 10, 20.2, -20 [both int and double]
bool: For storing true or false. E.g. true, false [Only stores true or false values]
var: For storing any value. E.g. ‘Bimal’, 12, ‘z’, true

type variableName = value;

Dart Constants
Dart Constant is defined as an immutable object, which means it can't be changed or modified during the
 execution of the program. Once we initialize the value to the constant variable, it cannot be reassigned later.

Defining/Initializing Constant in Dart
The Dart constant can be defined in the following two ways.

Using the final keyword
Using the const keyword

It is beneficial when we want to keep the value unchanged in the whole program. 
The keywords final and const are used to create a constant variable.
 Both keywords final and const are used as a conjunction with the data-type. 
 Dart will throw an exception if we try to modify the constant variable.

 Data Types
Data types help you to categorize all the different types of data you use in your code.
 For e.g. numbers, texts, symbols, etc. The data type specifies what type of value will be stored by the variable. 
 Each variable has its data type. Dart supports the following built-in data types :

Numbers
Strings
Booleans
Lists
Maps
Sets
Runes
Null
Built-In Types
In Dart language, there is the type of values that can be represented and manipulated. 
The data type classification is as given below:

Data Type	Keyword	Description
Numbers	int, double, num	It represents numeric values
Strings	String	It represents a sequence of characters
Booleans	bool	It represents Boolean values true and false
Lists	List	It is an ordered group of items
Maps	Map	It represents a set of values as key-value pairs
Sets	Set	It is an unordered list of unique values of same types
Runes	runes	It represents Unicode values of String
Null	null	It represents null value
